# vertial-cuckoo-filter
We presents the Vertical Cuckoo filter (VCF), a new cuckoo filter design that also implements more than two candidate buckets for each item. To ease the reallocation process, we propose a novel indexing scheme called vertical hashing, which easily derives out the candidate buckets with item fingerprint and predefined bitmasks. This design benefits the VCF from two aspects. First, the candidate buckets for an arbitrary item can be indexed with each other without additional hash computation nor the access of item content. Second, VCF only needs one single hash computation for each item insertion, lookup, and deletion. By contrast, the existing Cuckoo filters must execute at least two hash computations, i.e., one for fingerprint generation and one for locating can- didate buckets. In this manner, VCF achieves higher insertion throughput by avoiding unnecessary fingerprint reallocation and hash computation.
Moreover, we further improve VCF from two aspects. First, we generalize the number of candidate buckets for each item in VCF from the fixed 4 to a flexible k (≥ 4). By doing so, VCF provides a methodology to replace independent hash in VCF from the fixed 4 to a flexible k (≥ 4). By doing so, VCF provides a methodology to replace independent hash functions used by other sketches while still guarantee the randomness of the output. Second, we put forward two VCF variants (i.e., IVCF and DVCF) to realize a proper trade-off between false positive rate and space utilization (i.e., load factor). Specifically, IVCF realizes dynamical adjustments of performance by changing the form of the bitmasks in VCF. While DVCF changes the threshold of fingerprint hash value to achieve almost the same effect as IVCF.
